FastStore release notes v4.3.0 (#2760)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/release-notes/2026-06-19-faststore-release-notes-4-3-0.md

## Features

### Password Protection ([#3276](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/3276))

FastStore now ships a password-protection flow for gated storefront access. The change adds middleware that validates a secure session cookie, a `/api/fs/password-protection/unlock` endpoint that verifies passwords and returns a safe redirect URL, and a login page for protected environments. WebOps settings continue to drive which domains require authentication. The CLI also removes localization-based proxy filename toggling from `dev` and `build` commands.

Merchants can restrict preview URLs and production domains to authorized users, reducing accidental public exposure during development and launch. Configure password protection in [FastStore WebOps](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/webops-dashboard#password-protection) and [upgrade to 4.3.0](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/developer-tools-updating-the-cli-package-version) to enable the storefront login flow.

### File upload via Order Entry Service (OES) ([#3334](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/3334))

> QuickOrder file upload now uses the VTEX Order Entry Service instead of a rigid CSV parser. `@faststore/api` adds GraphQL operations (`uploadFileToOrderEntry`, `startOrderEntryOperation`, `orderEntryOperation`, `orderFormItems`) and VTEX commerce client methods for the OES flow. `@faststore/core` introduces `useOrderEntryUpload`, `useOrderEntryOperation`, `useOrderFormItems`, and the orchestration hook `useOrderEntry`. `@faststore/components` adds a `Processing` state to `FileUploadStatus` with a configurable `processingStatusText` label. `SearchInput` is refactored to use the OES-backed flow end-to-end, and the legacy `useCSVParser` hook and `useBulkProductsQuery` are removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
QuickOrder file upload now uses the VTEX Order Entry Service instead of a rigid CSV parser.
- `@faststore/api` adds GraphQL operations (`uploadFileToOrderEntry`, `startOrderEntryOperation`, `orderEntryOperation`, `orderFormItems`) and VTEX commerce client methods for the OES flow.
- `@faststore/core` introduces `useOrderEntryUpload`, `useOrderEntryOperation`, `useOrderFormItems`, and the orchestration hook `useOrderEntry`.
- `@faststore/components` adds a `Processing` state to `FileUploadStatus` with a configurable `processingStatusText` label.
- `SearchInput` is refactored to use the OES-backed flow end-to-end, and the legacy `useCSVParser` hook and `useBulkProductsQuery` are removed.
```

> Stores using QuickOrder file upload can accept more file formats and benefit from server-side parsing with AI-assisted extraction. The UI flow remains upload → processing → drawer, but processing is now distinct from upload. Upgrade to 4.3.0; no configuration changes are required beyond republishing CMS content if you customize `processingStatusText` in the Navbar schema.
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

> Stores using QuickOrder file upload can accept more file formats and benefit from server-side parsing with AI-assisted extraction. The UI flow remains upload → processing → drawer, but processing is now distinct from upload. Upgrade to 4.3.0; no configuration changes are required beyond republishing CMS content if you customize `processingStatusText` in the Navbar schema.

Reviewer: Mari, não entendi o "Upgrade to 4.3.0". Essa informação seria exatamente o quê?

Reviewer: Vi no tópico acima um link para https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/developer-tools-updating-the-cli-package-version, então a informação é que é necessário fazer o upgrade pra essa versão. Agora entendi! Como não vai ficar linkando novamente, acho que vale deixar mais explícito o que precisa ser atualizado. Algo tipo: "Upgrade the `@faststore/cli` package to 4.3.0".

## Bug Fixes

### Propagate upstream error status instead of always 500 ([#3379](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/3379))

The GraphQL BFF at `/api/graphql` previously returned HTTP `500` for all errors because masked `GraphQLError` instances hid the nested `FastStoreError` that carries `extensions.status`. The handler now unwraps masked errors via `recoverFastStoreError` and responds with the upstream status (for example `400` for invalid shipping `postalCode`). Non-production responses include structured `extensions.type` and `extensions.status`; upstream messages are omitted in production.

> API consumers and debugging workflows now receive accurate HTTP status codes instead of generic `500` responses. The storefront SDK still builds errors from `response.status` before reading the body. Upgrade to 4.3.0; review any custom error handling that assumed all BFF failures were `500`.

Reviewer: Mesma observação sobre o "Upgrade to 4.3.0"

API consumers and debugging workflows now receive accurate HTTP status codes instead of generic `500` responses. The storefront SDK still builds errors from `response.status` before reading the body. Upgrade to 4.3.0; review any custom error handling that assumed all BFF failures were `500`.

### Order Entry header authentication fix ([#3395](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/3395))

After #3381 removed the `withAutCookie` helper, the Order Entry Service client methods introduced in #3334 still referenced the helper, breaking builds and file upload requests. The five `orderEntry` methods now use the same `withCookie` header pattern as other authenticated commerce calls, preserving `multipart/form-data` for file upload.

Stores using OES-backed QuickOrder file upload should upgrade to 4.3.0 together with #3334. No separate configuration is required.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "FastStore Release Notes — Version 4.3.0"
slug: "2026-06-19-faststore-release-notes-4-3-0"

> type: added

Author: ```suggestion
type: improved
```

> excerpt: "Storefront password protection, Order Entry Service file upload in QuickOrder, CMS landing page sitemap control, and My Account and BFF reliability fixes"

Author: ```suggestion
excerpt: "Storefront password protection, Order Entry Service file upload in QuickOrder, and My Account and BFF reliability fixes"
```

createdAt: "2026-06-19T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedAt: "2026-06-19T00:00:00.000Z"
hidden: true
tags:
  - FastStore
---

> FastStore 4.3.0 adds storefront password protection for preview and production domains, integrates QuickOrder file upload with the VTEX Order Entry Service (OES), and extends CMS landing pages with sitemap visibility control. This release also fixes My Account authentication, password reset routing, GraphQL BFF error status propagation, and dependency maintenance for Partytown. See the sections below for details.

Author: ```suggestion
FastStore 4.3.0 adds storefront password protection for preview and production domains, integrates QuickOrder file upload with the VTEX Order Entry Service (OES. This release also fixes My Account authentication, password reset routing, GraphQL BFF error status propagation, and dependency maintenance for Partytown. See the sections below for details.
```

## Features

### Password Protection ([#3276](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/3276))

FastStore now ships a password-protection flow for gated storefront access. The change adds middleware that validates a secure session cookie, a `/api/fs/password-protection/unlock` endpoint that verifies passwords and returns a safe redirect URL, and a login page for protected environments. WebOps settings continue to drive which domains require authentication. The CLI also removes localization-based proxy filename toggling from `dev` and `build` commands.

> Merchants can restrict preview URLs and production domains to authorized users, reducing accidental public exposure during development and launch. Configure password protection in [FastStore WebOps](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/webops-dashboard#password-protection) and upgrade to 4.3.0 to enable the storefront login flow.

Author: ```suggestion
Merchants can restrict preview URLs and production domains to authorized users, reducing accidental public exposure during development and launch. Configure password protection in [FastStore WebOps](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/webops-dashboard#password-protection) and [upgrade to 4.3.0](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/developer-tools-updating-the-cli-package-version) to enable the storefront login flow.
```

### File upload via Order Entry Service (OES) ([#3334](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/3334))

QuickOrder file upload now uses the VTEX Order Entry Service instead of a rigid CSV parser. `@faststore/api` adds GraphQL operations (`uploadFileToOrderEntry`, `startOrderEntryOperation`, `orderEntryOperation`, `orderFormItems`) and VTEX commerce client methods for the OES flow. `@faststore/core` introduces `useOrderEntryUpload`, `useOrderEntryOperation`, `useOrderFormItems`, and the orchestration hook `useOrderEntry`. `@faststore/components` adds a `Processing` state to `FileUploadStatus` with a configurable `processingStatusText` label. `SearchInput` is refactored to use the OES-backed flow end-to-end, and the legacy `useCSVParser` hook and `useBulkProductsQuery` are removed.

Stores using QuickOrder file upload can accept more file formats and benefit from server-side parsing with AI-assisted extraction. The UI flow remains upload → processing → drawer, but processing is now distinct from upload. Upgrade to 4.3.0; no configuration changes are required beyond republishing CMS content if you customize `processingStatusText` in the Navbar schema.

> ### Sitemap control for CMS landing pages ([#3386](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/3386))

Reviewer 2: Por hora isso ainda não tá gerando nenhum efeito, podemos tirar por enquanto.. até a feature de sitemap entrar tbm.

[CMS](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/cms-for-faststore-storefronts) landing page content types now include an optional **Public** toggle (`siteMap`, default `true`) that controls whether the landing page URL is included in `sitemap.xml`. The field is added to `cms_content_type__landingpage.jsonc` and reflected in the aggregated CMS schema.

> Editors can exclude specific landing pages from the sitemap without unpublishing them. After upgrading, run `vtex content upload-schema` in your account so the updated schema is available in CMS.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Order Entry header authentication fix ([#3395](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/3395))

After #3381 removed the `withAutCookie` helper, the Order Entry Service client methods introduced in #3334 still referenced the helper, breaking builds and file upload requests. The five `orderEntry` methods now use the same `withCookie` header pattern as other authenticated commerce calls, preserving `multipart/form-data` for file upload.

Stores using OES-backed QuickOrder file upload should upgrade to 4.3.0 together with #3334. No separate configuration is required.

### Migrate Partytown to @qwik.dev ([#3394](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/3394))

`@faststore/core` replaces `@builder.io/partytown@^0.6.1` with `@qwik.dev/partytown@^0.14.0`, following the official Partytown package relocation. Runtime behavior is unchanged: the CLI still runs `partytown copylib` at `predev`/`prebuild` and loads static assets from `/~partytown/partytown.js`.

> Upgrade to 4.3.0 to stay on the maintained Partytown package. Re-run `faststore dev` or `faststore build` so `public/~partytown/` is regenerated. No store configuration changes are required.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---

> ## My Account

Author: ```suggestion
## My Account for B2B Buyer Portal (Closed Beta)
```

### Forward auth token only via account-scoped cookie (PR: [#3381](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/3381))

> Logged-in shoppers were redirected to `/pvt/account/403` when accessing FastStore My Account because `@auth`-protected GraphQL queries forwarded the VTEX ID token twice—via the account-scoped cookie and a duplicated top-level header. The platform rejected the duplicate with `401` even for valid sessions. This PR removes the `withAutCookie` helper and standardizes authenticated VTEX requests on the account-scoped cookie pattern used elsewhere in `@faststore/api`.

Author: ```suggestion
Logged-in shoppers were redirected to `/pvt/account/403` when accessing FastStore My Account because `@auth`-protected GraphQL queries forwarded the VTEX ID token twice—via the account-scoped cookie and a duplicated top-level header. The platform rejected the duplicate with `401` even for valid sessions. This PR standardizes authenticated VTEX requests on the account-scoped cookie pattern used elsewhere in `@faststore/api`.
```

Stores with `experimental.enableFaststoreMyAccount` enabled should regain access to My Account routes after upgrading. No configuration changes are required.

### Use authenticator route for set password ([#3380](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/3380))

The My Account **Reset password** flow in `useSetPassword` now posts to `/api/authenticator/pub/authentication/classic/setpassword` instead of the deprecated `/api/vtexid/pub/authentication/classic/setpassword` endpoint. The account name is passed explicitly via the `an` query parameter, sourced from the hook argument with a fallback to `config.api.storeId`. The request method, credentials, form body, and success/error toast mapping remain unchanged.

> Stores using FastStore My Account security settings should verify the password reset after upgrading. No developer configuration changes are required.

Author: ```suggestion
Stores using FastStore My Account security settings should verify the password reset after upgrading. No configuration is required.
```
